hey guys welcome back to another episode
of the samurai carpenter this week's
episode we're going to be making a
hand-carved Native American peace pipe
these things are really fun especially
when you're on a camping trip with your
friends your Bros or you know sitting on
the back yard around a campfire pack a
bowl on this thing pass it around it's a
real great experience for all those who
are involved and it's actually really
really nice to smoke a long pipe now the
peace pipe my my take on why they made
these things so long is because the
longer the shaft the more it cools the
smoke as you're smoking it so you don't
get a what's called tongue bite where
you got this hot smoke starts to
irritate your tongue so yeah they're a
lot nicer to smoke keeps the smoke a lot
cooler than a short kind of English or
European style pipe and they're a lot
more fun to smoke as well you kind of
feel like you've gone back in time so
yeah here's the sawhorses that we built
last week I just put a coat of linseed
oil on them and you can see here is a
smart idea I came up with this to add
this high friction non-skid pad on top
which keeps your material can get
damaged but it's all horses and it stops
it from sliding around when you're
planing or router and stuff like that so
yeah that's those but for now let's get
started on the peace pipe alright so
these are the tools that you're going to
need basically I cut a piece of cherry
about an inch and a quarter square I
know there's all sorts of pipe gurus out
there that say you know you can only use
this type of with that type of wood I
find that cherry seems to be just fine
and not toxic from what I know I'm not
dead from smoking my other one for years
now and nice hardwood it's easy to work
with and it's beautiful so I use cherry
you might use something else
maple I've also made pipes out of maple
that that works fine too but I I
personally like cherry so start with an
inch of quarter square piece of cherry
now the tricky part is drilling the hole
that's kind of the the whole trick to
this whole project is drilling the hole
now what I'm going to try and do
use this 1/8 ship auger bit about a foot
long which isn't quite long enough to go
the way all the way through but
hopefully it'll give me a straight hole
for the first foot and then I'm going to
switch over to this which is just my
MacGyver five-gallon bucket handle I
just bent off of a bucket flattened it
out ground a little chisel tip on the
end and that will hopefully follow the
straight hole that I did with the drill
bit and then finish me off the last
three or four inches that I'll need
without going too far off center so
let's give it a shot all right so my
first attempt was not a success that
gives you any encouragement yeah the
green is moving a little bit along this
would kind of got a twist in it so
hopefully that won't run my bit too far
off I'll try and do this one straight
you
all right so drove my end hole went down
with five-eighths Fortuner met the hole
turned out to be a little bit on the
side of the hole but it still works
great run the drill bit through three or
four more times just to clean out the
hole the next part after you've made the
shaft is to cut out the bowls now
you might as well cut out too because
eventually you will wear wear one out
you'll burn through it or it'll just get
burnt up on the inside so you might as
well make two so that you have a spare
once you've got your blocks cut out I
made mine inch and 3/4 square by 2 and
3/4 long so you're going to draw a line
about 1/2 an inch up that parts going to
fit into the hole the rest you're going
to carve into whatever shape you want
you want to make a center mark on each
one
the diameter of your bowl will be one
inch diameter so I use a one inch
diameter Forster bit to drill down on
the other side you draw a 5/8 diameter
circle to fit inside your 5/8 hole then
you drill about a 3/16 center hole
through to connect to the tobacco
chamber table-saw to two and a quarter
to the ends of the blade
you
once you've got the squares rough down
on the bottom drill bit 3/16 drill bit
all right the next part is a little bit
trickier on the bottom part where you've
drawn your five eighths diameter circle
you want to just take your knife start
scoring the edges in and then just carve
it down a little bit of the time when
you get close to the lines you want to
keep test fitting it in your pipe to
make sure you don't make it too loose
you want it to be nice and snug so that
it's air tight when you're smoking your
pipe all right so there you have it
those are the two components to your
North American peace pipe make sure that
you get a nice snug fit around there so
that it's airtight
now if you're into modern design then
you're already done but let's be serious
nobody with a brain likes modern design
so we're going to carve this thing out
make it beautiful
all right so here's the Native American
peace pipe and it's rough form tune in
next week when we put some carving on it
and see how well she smokes if you
enjoyed this video please like and
subscribe and we'll see you next week
thanks guys